New pages: HTMLOptionElement properties (#35909)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmloptionelement/selected/index.md

---
title: "HTMLOptionElement: selected property"
short-title: selected
slug: Web/API/HTMLOptionElement/selected
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLOptionElement.selected
---

{{ APIRef("HTML DOM") }}

The **`selected`** property of the {{DOMxRef("HTMLOptionElement")}} interface specifies the current selectedness of the element; that is, whether the {{HTMLElement("option")}} is selected or not.

> The presence of the HTML [`selected`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/Option#selected) attribute indicates the option is selected by default. It does not indicate whether this option is currently selected: if the options's state is changed, this content attribute does not reflect the change; only the `HTMLOptionElement`'s `selected` IDL property is updated. The `selected` attribute is reflected by the {{domxref("HTMLOptionElement.defaultselected", "defaultselected")}} property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The presence of the HTML [`selected`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/Option#selected) attribute indicates the option is selected by default. It does not indicate whether this option is currently selected: if the option's state changes, the `selected` content attribute does not reflect the change; only the `HTMLOptionElement`'s `selected` IDL property is updated. The `selected` attribute is reflected by the {{domxref("HTMLOptionElement.defaultSelected", "defaultSelected")}} property.
```
